if you were to make a bullet point list
of facts about bayonetta 2 and show them
to somebody they'll probably think you
are a bit nuts or at least some weirdo
that goes around showing people lists so
i probably wouldn't advise it a wii u
exclusive sequel to a multi-format
PlatinumGames title featuring violent
content and jointly published by
nintendo and sega is absolute madness oh
and it's also one of the most exciting
games you'll play this year it's just
one big anomaly and it's bloody great at
its heart this is the game of glorious
excess taking already great first
installment and pushing it harder and
literally faster than before admittedly
major changes to the game play a few and
far between but it's the refinement of
practically every aspect of the original
that ultimately makes the biggest
difference following on from the first
game of course the realms of Paradiso
purgatorio and inferno or once again in
jeopardy but before Bayonetta can worry
about that her fellow witch Jones soul
has been taken and held captive in the
fiery depths of inferno with the help of
allies old and new Jean soul must be
saved before she's lost forever
meanwhile the struggle contains the eyes
of the world ancient relics that grant
the actual powers of a god to those who
possess both luckily better to hold one
of these eyes herself or the other
remains within the lumen sages so it
should be safe right a far more coherent
and streamlined plot than the original
it is entirely possible to play this
sequel without experiencing in the first
game and still understand the majority
of what's going on although you really
should play the original so it's
comforting to know that bayonetta 2
caters for players of all abilities this
is a much fairer and more lenient game
than its predecessor for a start the
all-important which Tom ability that
allows you to slow time from a
successful evade was previously
difficult to activate you to a very
small window in which to dodge the
window for a successful which time
activation is much fairer this time
around reducing the amount of
frustration during combat meanwhile new
players can opt for an easy mode
is you an equippable accessory that
dodges most attacks for you plus it's
also possible to play the game entirely
with the Wii U gamepad touch screen
allowing you just to tap enemies
repeatedly for quick and easy combos but
don't think these welcome allowances
come at a cost to this challenge like
always Platinum Games has us masochists
covered with some particularly nasty
levels and some harder difficulties that
would push your combat skills the limits
there are even some non-story areas that
I'm still struggling to finish on the
easy difficulty seriously while the
basics are largely unchanged from the
original it doesn't take long to notice
that combat is so much quicker than
previous with far more responsive
controls everything flows at an
incredible speed that takes the action
much more exciting directions while the
easier execution at which time ensures
that the insanity is just a bit more
manageable the mechanics of bayonets are
still there from a multitude of deadly
weapons that can be equipped of
different limbs to the relative
simplicity of attacks and it still feels
great is you can't wheel around areas
spraying bullets and unleashing flurries
of Malay and long-range attacks on foes
some enemies are total damage sponges
requiring extended beatings before they
bite the dust but that just means more
opportunities for higher combo scores
which lead to higher ranks and more
currency to purchase items weapons
accessories costumes and much more well
the original game was quite stingy in
giving you halos this time it's much
easier when you can buy something call
after every other level of course you'll
probably want to buy those awesome
Nintendo costumes pretty quickly and who
could blame you there are ton of fun to
play around with but there are
absolutely loads more items to purchase
three playthroughs in and I still
haven't bought everything there is
definitely an incentive to replay levels
to get those platinum and pure platinum
grades this is a far more immediate game
the time spent out of battle is much
shorter and everything feels far more
focused make no mistake this game is all
about action and if you aren't fighting
most of the time you'll be doing
something else equally as exciting
including some barely recognizable
homage it's two classic Nintendo
sega games there are still well hidden
items and areas to find so exploration
is still a small part of the game but
these interludes between verses are well
paced breathers rather than filler get
through the many chapters and difficulty
settings and the challenge isn't over
thanks to the unusual tag climax
multiplayer modes this online mode
allows you and a partner's take on a
selection of the main games toughest
battles allow you to bet halos and who
can get a higher score you can take
those winnings back to the single player
game and buy more items that are a dance
shop and while it would have been nice
to play through the story mode above a
friend being able to earn currency
multiplayer is reason enough to indulge
in this nice additional mode visually
it's stunning and it's easily one of the
best looking games on the Wii U mainly
thanks to a very distinctive use of
color leaving behind the washed-out use
of the original each area and battle is
saturated in vibrant blues reds whites
goals and purples and bayonetta 2 looks
incredibly beautiful for it each battle
is exciting to watch as it is to play as
the title character twirls around like a
deadly dancer in a performance of
high-intensity violence plus once more
your fights were backed by infectious
tunes and massive orchestra led pieces
thanks to an absolute the massive
soundtrack that never fails to impress
outside of gameplay presentation is a
mixed bag with some excellent in-game
set pieces as well as slightly
underwhelming static cutscenes all laced
with an only camp vocal delivery that
reminds you that everything you
experiencing here is so gloriously over
the top whether or not you approve the
hypersexuality bayonetta is still
confident and strong protagonist and
this is a constant throughout and the
narrative reflects this intense gorgeous
and thrilling to play this is Platinum's
best game so far nintendo have clearly
had an input here with a game that's
more forgiving for new players but still
has enough challenge for fans or without
watering down or compromising the
experience for either type of player a
non-stop climax of excitement from the
moment you start the prologue this is
one of those games that demands to be
played
you